# Missing diagnoses during the COVID-19 pandemic: a year in review

This is the data and code repository for the project "Missing diagnoses during the COVID-19 pandemic: a year in review".

- Héctor Pifarré i Arolas, Centre for Research in Health Economics, Universitat Pompeu Fabra. For questions regarding the repo, please email hector.pifarre@upf.edu.
- Josep Vidal-Alaball, Health Promotion in Rural Areas Research Group, Gerència Territorial de la Catalunya Central,Institut Català de la Salut
- Joan Gil, Universitat de Barcelona.
- Francesc López Seguí, Centre for Research in Health Economics, Universitat Pompeu Fabra.
- Catia Nicodemo: Centre of Organisation, Department of Primary Economics, University of Oxford. 
- Marc Sáez, Universitat de Girona.

Jose Andrade, Nicolai Brachowicz, and Roger Sabater provided excellent research assistance.

All code is included in the `Code` folder and data in `Data` folder, which reproduce analysis in the project.

# Data
The data was extracted from the computerised medical record of the Information System for Primary Care Services (SISAP in Catalan) of the Catalan Institute of Health, in Barcelona, Spain. These data are not publicly available, and restrictions apply to the availability of the data used for the current study. These data are available upon reasonable request addressed to the Catalan Institute of Health. The usage of the data in the current study is regulated by data confidentiality agreements between the researchers of the team and the Catalan Institute of Health and reviewed by the Institutional Committee for Ethical Review of Projects at Universitat Pompeu Fabra. 

To support scientific transparency, we have asked and received permission from the Catalan Institute of Health to post a de-identified and appropriately redacted random sample of the data for replication purposes.

# Code organization
The project follows the following data structure (which should be followed for replication purposes):

- `Data\Data_visites_final`: visit level data for 2019 and 2020.
- `Data\Data_ABS_sociecon`: primary health team level population data for 2020.
- `Data\Data_results`: data generated by the project's scripts is stored here.
- `Data\Data_results\Chapters`:  data generated by the project's scripts at a ICD-10 subchapter level is stored here.

# Code file descriptions
- `A - Datavisits cleaning final data sample version.R`: raw data reading and preparation; this is the version for redacted sample data.
- `A - ABS data reading.R`: population data at primary care team level.
- `A - Diagnostic codebook.R`: ICD-10 codebook for reference.
- `A - Panel ABS.R`: panel structure template for the data.
- `B - Detections management.R`: identifies new diagnoses in the data.
- `C - Detections analysis.R`: creates a panel of new diagnosis at the ICD-10 chapter level.
- `C - Robustness subchapters.R`: creates a panel of new diagnosis at the ICD-10 sub-chapter level.
- `D - Final data for plots.R`: compiles the final data for visualization.
- `E - Visualization.R`: creates the main figure and a variety of descriptive statistics used in the article (and some extra).

# Main data file descriptions
- `sample_data.csv`: sample data consisting in 10,000 unique individuals with visits in 2019, and an additional 10,000 for 2020.
- `Poblacio_2020.sav`: population data at primary care team level.

